This directory provides the OCL specification of type "UReal" and
its operations, as defined in the paper "Expressing Measurement
Uncertainty in Software Models" by A. Vallecillo, C. Morcillo, P.
Orue. In Proc. of QUATIC 2016.

This new type permits the specification of torelance in model
attributes, being able to express that a value is 3 +/- 0.00001 as
required by most Engineering models.

For this, values are specified by a pair (x,u) where "x" represents
the value, and "u" its associated uncertainty -- according to the
"Guide to Uncertainty in Measurement" (GUM) international standard.

Thus, type UReal defines two attributes: the value (x) and its
associated uncertainty (u). The key issue is not so much how to
represent uncertain values, but being able to operate with
them in the models (for instance, to calculate the values of 
derived attributes).

The operations have been specified using both OCL standard and
also SOIL (Simple OCL-like Imperative Language), which is part of
USE http://www.db.informatik.uni-bremen.de/publications/Buettner_2014_SCPSOIL.pdf

The benefits of this approach is that SOIL specification can be
executed. The OCL specifications of the operations using OCL pre-
and post-conditions can be found in the file "UReal.ocl". 
The USE specifications are in file "UReal.use". An example that uses
values with uncertainty to specify a Rectangle class is also included here 
for illustration purposes.

More precisely, this directory contains several files:

- QUATIC2016-paper.pdf: the original paper where the problem is
motivated and the solution described. In particular, type UReal is
decribed and documented.

- UReal-UMLType.jpg: image with the UML spec of type UReal

- UReal.ocl: the OCL specifications of type UReal and its operations

- UReal.use: the OCL specifications of type UReal and its operations
  in USE: they can be simulated and executed with the USE tool

- URealBasicExamples.use: basic examples of how to execute USE specs 
  that make use of type UReal

- Rectangle-OCL-USE.pdf. The complete description and
  specifications of the Rectangle class, using type UReal to have
  into account tolerance in values.

- Rectangle.ocl: the OCL specification of class Rectangle and its
  operations

- Rectangle.use: the USE specification of class Rectangle and its
  operations: they can be simulated and executed with the USE tool

- Rectangle-execution.use: example of how the USE specs can be
  executed

- oclextensions: This folder contains two extensions required to
  provide the standard USE distribution package with operations
  sqrt() and power() for Real, and some additional operations on type
  Sequence (to sum their elements and multiply them by scalars). As
  described in the paper, UReal specifications in OCL assume
  operations "sqrt" and "power" on OCL type Real, currently not
  defined in the OCL standard. Similarly for the "sum", "minus" (sum
  and subtraction of arrays) and "mult" (multiplication by a scalar)
  operations on Sequence(Real). These operations have been included
  in the extensions to USE using its predefined extensions
  mechanisms. Then, these files "Real.xml" and "Sequence.xml" need to
  be placed in the USE folder "oclExtensions". (in case files with
 the same names exist in that folder, please merge their contents).)
